# Lab Assignment #3 – Using Recursion

Purpose: The purpose of this Lab assignment is to:

-   Design recursive algorithms

-   Implement recursive methods in Java or Python

References: Read the course’s text chapter 5 and the lecture slides.
This material provides the necessary information that you need to
complete the exercises.

## Exercise 1

**If your first name starts with a letter from A-J inclusively:**

Create a **recursive algorithm** to compute the **product of two
positive integers**, *m* and *n*, using only addition and subtraction.
Implement the Java or Python code. **Hint:** You need subtraction to
count down from *m* or *n* and addition to do the arithmetic needed to
get the right answer. Check *linearSum* method from Week 5 examples.

**If your first name starts with a letter from K-Z inclusively:**

Write a recursive method to produce the following pattern:

```
*
**
***
****
***
**
*
```

Test the method by asking the user to enter the number of asterisks of
the maximum line (for example, the user should enter 4 in this case).

(3 marks)

## Exercise 2

**If your first name starts with a letter from A-J inclusively:**

Write a short **recursive Java method** that determines if a string s is
a palindrome, that is, it is equal to its reverse. Examples of
palindromes include 'racecar' and 'mom'. Test the method by asking the
user to provide string entries to be checked. **Hint:** Check the
equality of the first and last characters and recur (but be careful to
return the correct value for both odd and even-length strings).

**If your first name starts with a letter from K-Z inclusively:**

Write **a recursive method** to that returns the number of vowels in a
string. Test the method by asking the user to enter a string. **Hint**:
create a special method for checking if a character is a vowel.

(3 marks)

## Exercise 3

**If your first name starts with a letter from A-J inclusively:**

Write **a recursive method** that takes a string as argument and
determines if the string has more vowels than consonants. Test the
method by asking the user to enter a string. **Hint**: Write your
recursive method to first count vowels and consonants.

**If your first name starts with a letter from K-Z inclusively:**

Implement a **recursive method** that takes *(path, filename)* as
arguments and returns all entries of the file system rooted at the given
*path* having the given *file name*. Test the method with a real path,
filename from your file system. **Hint**: Review use of the
*java.io.File* class and the week 5 examples.

(4 marks)
